In this lesson, we will make an optical zoom: by pressing the right mouse button, we will change the camera's angle of view.
This will make objects appear closer. We create a new action. Name it zoom
and assign the right mouse button to it.
Let's create a virtual zoom function in the base weapon class.
It will be empty by default. We will redefine it only in the rifle class, the launcher will not have the zoom option.
The function will have one boolean parameter that will be responsible for turning the zoom on / off.
Go to the rifle class, override the zoom function.
We create the body of the function.
The function that allows you to change the angle of view of the camera is in the PlayerCameraManager.
We already used the Camera Manager class when shaking the camera. Let's create a local variable to which we will write the PlayerController.
Using the GetController function that we created in the rifle class,
we get a pointer to the AController and make it Cast to the PlayerController.
This is where the PlayerCameraManager is located. Let's check two pointers in one if:
if controller = nullptr or PlayerCameraManager = nullptr, then we exit the function.
Let's create an auxiliary constant using the TInterval template. In this constant we will store the
value of the field of view normal and the value of the field of view when zooming. Optionally, you can make a property
to change this value later. The field of view value at zoom will be 50 degrees, and the usual 90 degrees.
And we call the PlayerCameraManager function called SetFOV. This function changes the angle of view of the player's camera.
Depending on the enabled flag, we pass either 50 degrees or 90 degrees to this function.
Next, go to the weapon component. Here we also need to create a zoom function. And we create the body of the function.
This function will call the zoom function of the current weapon.
It remains to add input.
Our action is called zoom.
And when pressed, the zoom function of the weapon component should be called. We must call the zoom function and pass true to it when the key is pressed,
and when the key is released, we must pass false there.
The easiest option is to make two functions in the character: ZoomOn, ZoomOff and call through them the zoom function of the weapon component /
Accordingly, with true or with false. But you can make it trickier. The BindAction function has a template version
and with it you can make bind functions with a parameter. To do this
, pass the delegate signature as a template parameter . We declare a new delegate. This can also be done directly in a function.
Our delegate will have one boolean parameter, we call it FZoomInputSignature.
We pass it as a template parameter to the BindAction function.
After that, you need to pass all the parameters in accordance with the signature of the delegate. We have only one parameter.
On the Pressed event, we pass true. And for the event released - false.
We compile the project. Before starting the game, let's see what happens programmatically.
Let's take the character onto the stage. In the details panel, we will find the camera component, it has a
property called field of view. By changing the parameters on the camera preview on the right, we can
observe how the image will change with different field of view. We remove the character from the scene.
I turned off the sound of the game in advance so that it would not interfere with us. Press the right mouse button - the FOV changes.
This is how our telescopic sight works. For the launcher class, the zoom function is not redefined,
so it does not have optical zoom. We have several problems. One of them occurs when we
switch weapons while holding the zoom. The viewing angle remains reduced. The second problem:
this situation can arise when we are killed by the clamped zoom. The FOV also needs to
be returned to its default value. Let's correct these two points.
The OnDeath function is called when our character is killed. Let's call the zoom function of the weapon component in it with the false parameter.
This is the first fix. And we need to do the same in the weapon component in the EquipWeapon function.
In fact, if the functionality of a weapon becomes more complicated, then it is more convenient to make a separate function called UnEquip
and call it when the user no longer uses this weapon. Let's add a
property for the zoom FOV. Copy the uproperty macro in the RifleWeapon.
Let's call it FOVZoomAngle and assign the value we are currently using - 50 degrees.
And we will also create an additional variable in the private section, which we will call DefaultCameraFOV.
Let the default be 90, but we'll see now that it doesn't matter to us at all.
Let's go to the zoom function. The default FOV can be anything. In the blueprint, we can set any
angle value: 100, 110, and so on. Therefore, it is not entirely correct to set the value to 90 when we remove the zoom.
We can keep the current FOV of the camera when the zoom is enabled, that is, when enabled = true.
And when the user wants to remove the zoom, we just set this value.
This way, our logic will work correctly with any given default FOV.
The function that returns the current FOV of the camera is called GetFOVAngle.
We replace the values ​​with variables in our ternary operator: if zoom is on, then we set the
value FOVZoomAngle, and if off, then DefaultCameraFOV.
We no longer need the TInterval constant; we can remove it.
This concludes the lesson. Please check these fixes yourself.